the moon this is one of the few space
bodies you can observe without a
telescope
it's the fifth largest moon in the solar
system at more than 2150 miles across
earth's natural satellite is bigger than
pluto
the moon's surface is pock-marked with
volcanoes craters left by space rocks
and pools of hardened lava at one time
this lava used to burst through the
crust when asteroids hit the surface
the moon is the second densest natural
satellite in the solar system
after jupiter's moon io deep inside
the moon has a solid iron core but it's
tiny
a mere one to two percent of the moon's
mass and no more than 420 miles wide
it's surrounded by a liquid molten iron
outer core
the mantle is more than 800 miles thick
it's made up of rock rich in magnesium
and iron
and the outer part of the moon's
interior the crust
is 42 miles thick its outermost
six mile thick layer is mostly shattered
that's due to space bodies that have
been hitting the moon for millions of
years
the lunar surface is made up of oxygen
silicon
magnesium iron calcium aluminum
and small amounts of other elements
black holes are some of the most
mysterious objects in the universe
they have an immense gravitational pull
nothing
including light can escape this force
for obvious reasons no one has ever had
a chance to check what's inside a black
hole
but even so scientists have managed to
get a detailed image
of high density gas surrounding a black
hole
it has a unique chemical composition
with large amounts of hydrogen cyanide
and hydrogen sulfide this discovery can
help astronomers find black holes
that may be hiding behind dust comets
nicknamed dirty snowballs comets are icy
space bodies that release dust or gas
astronomers believe they're leftovers
from the substance forming the solar
system
more than four and a half billion years
ago some comets orbit the sun
but most of them can be found in the
oort cloud the most distant region of
our solar system
a comet has a solid nucleus with a small
rocky core
the nucleus which can be up to 10 miles
wide
is made up of ice and dust and coated
with dark
organic material this ice consists
not only of frozen water but also of
frozen gases
such as carbon dioxide carbon monoxide
ammonia and methane some comets may
contain more ice or rock
while others have more dust once a comet
comes closer to the sun
its icy part starts to turn into gas
this cloud is called a coma it can be
one million
miles wide and up to 100 million miles
long
comet tails are formed by solar winds
and sunlight
that's why they always point away from
the sun
asteroids these irregular space
rocks vary in size and can be as tiny as
boulders
or as large as football fields their
solid
rocky remains of the disk of gas and
dust
that surrounded the young sun 4.5
billion years ago
asteroids are made up mainly of rock or
clay and silicates mixed with metal
like iron and nickel its composition
depends on how close the asteroid
is to the sun if the distance is small
then it's mostly carbon
with tiny amounts of oxygen hydrogen and
nitrogen
asteroids that are further away consist
of silicate rock
metallic asteroids are made of 80 iron
and 20 percent other metals like gold
magnesium
platinum palladium and nickel
meteoroids these objects are mostly
formed when asteroids collide with each
other
there are also micrometeoroids which are
super common throughout the solar system
meteoroids are made of silicon and
oxygen
some of them contain metals like nickel
and iron
such meteoroids are dense and more
massive
stony meteoroids are much more fragile
and way lighter
white dwarfs sooner or later
when our sun runs out of its fuel
hydrogen it'll become
a white dwarf once a star expels
almost all its outer material only its
hot core remains
and its temperature reaches 180 000
degrees fahrenheit
after that a white dwarf starts to cool
down
this process goes on for the next
several billion years
paradoxically the more massive a star is
the smaller its size inside a white
dwarf
gravity squeezes the matter so tightly
that electrons making up the star's
atoms
get smashed together this process goes
on
until there's no free space to be taken
up that's why a teaspoon of the white
dwarfs matter
weighs more than five tons as much as an
elephant
astronomers think white dwarfs might
have a crust
no wider than 30 miles below the star's
atmosphere
the bottom part of this crust is likely
a crystalline layer of oxygen
and carbon atoms gas giants
unlike rocky planets with metals and
silicate materials in their composition
gas giants mainly consist of gases
that's why they're usually much larger
than their terrestrial mates
saturn and jupiter are the most famous
gas giants in the solar system
at the center of a gas giant there's
either a molten ball
of solid or liquid rock or a metallic
core
without it a gas giant can't form but
the main parts of the planet's mass
are gases surrounding the core they can
be different
but the most common are hydrogen and
helium with some traces of methane
ammonia and water gas giants don't have
any solid surface
their atmosphere just gets less and less
dense the further it is from the core
somewhere along the way it might even
become liquid
pulsar this spherical object
is usually the size of a large city but
has more
mass than our sun pulsars often look
like flickering stars
on and off on and off their blinking
seems to have regular intervals
but in reality pulsars don't flicker
this space body is a rotating neutron
star with a mega strong magnetic field
it can be up to a million billion times
more powerful than earth's
this magnetic field sends streams of
particles along its two magnetic poles
they create two powerful beams of light
shining in opposite directions
that's what make pulsars look like they
blink while spinning
a pulsar's core is super fluid that
means
if you stirred it it would rotate
forever
the core is surrounded by an inner crust
and a rigid outer crust with a
crystalline surface
red giants sometimes when a star uses up
all its hydrogen its helium atoms start
to form into larger elements such as
carbon
the star's core collapses inward under
this pressure
and its outer layers spread out and cool
the star becomes larger and colder and
gets a red tint
the thing is that when a star's outer
layers cave
in under gravity they heat up and once
the shell around its central core gets
hot enough
the star gains a new source of energy
its core
becomes even hotter than before and the
star's outer part swell
turning it into a red giant in the heart
of the star
there's a central core that consists of
iron while a layer made up of nitrogen
oxygen and carbon surrounds this core
then there's a helium shell and an outer
hydrogen mantle